Docs/README.md, before:

# Task Proxy

<img
 src="https://www.taskproxy.com/ms-icon-310x310.png"
 alt="Stoic Dreams Task Proxy Logo"
 title="Stoic Dreams Task Proxy Logo"
 style="float:right;margin-top:-60px"
 />

[![Task Proxy GitHub Actions][gh-image]][gh-checks]

[gh-image]: https://github.com/stoicdreams/taskproxyapp/actions/workflows/deploy.yml/badge.svg
[gh-checks]: https://github.com/stoicdreams/taskproxyapp/actions?query=branch%3Amain

This project is a desktop application targeted towards software developers and power users to help them document and organize their workflows, automation scripts, and project configurations.

A key feature of Task Proxy is the ability to allow teams and developers to create and share reports, scripts, automation, and onboarding workflows to help new team members get setup quickly, and help assure developers stays in sync as project configurations are changed.

<div style="clear:both" />

## Expected launch features include

- Reporting components generated from script results or API endpoint results.
- Scoped variables for storing common, dev-specific, or secret data values.
- Script templating allowing variables editable in UI
- Easily update local environment variables as well as Azure App Config services that your local projects connect to.
- Event driven triggers to run specified scripts on specified events (file updates, button in UI, git commit, etc).
- Support for Windows 10/11, Mac, Linux

## Expected Use-Cases

- Onboarding workflow with step-by-step guidance for developers to setup their local environment for deploying projects locally (websites, fabric cluster, etc).
- Managing / Sharing scripts (Powershell, command prompt, SQL).
- Sharing team & project documentation (Architecture, features, coding standards, etc) organized using a tag-based system inspired by mind-map applications.
- Health report that will verify required SDKs/configurations are installed/setup as expected for Team/project.

## Planned Cloud Services

- Option to store variable data in cloud.

## Planned Website Services

- Paste exported project, page, and unit templates to share.
- View templates shared by others.
- Vote on templates <i class="fa-duotone fa-thumbs-up"></i>.

## Expected Workflows

### Opening Task Proxy for the first time

When opening the application for the first time, the user should be presented with a startup guide giving them a quick overview of the application and the ability to create their first project. Any Project specific menu items should be disabled / hidden.

### Cloud Services

Planned workflow to enable Cloud Services:

1. Create an account at StoicDreams.com and sign-up for desired subscription service option.
1. Sign-in to Task Proxy app with your Stoic Dreams account credentials.
1. App will automatically detect service availability and enable Cloud settings in App settings.
1. In Cloud Settings, user can toggle cloud features to enable or disable.

### Manage Variables

Variables are data objects that can be used to fill in values. It is recommended to use variables for any dynamic values used for any scripts or processes. But you absolutely need to use variables where any secrets might be used to assure secrets are not getting saved in any shared files or scripts.

#### Variable Scopes

Variables can be scoped as Page, Project, and Global scopes. Page scoped variables are only available to the page they are defined in. And project scoped variables are available anywhere within the project. While Global scopes can be accessed across any project.

When scripts or components are accessing variable values with keys duplicated across scopes, they will only use the value that is from the highest priority available. Page scoped variables have the highest priority, then Project, then Global.

### Create a new Report

Reports are components that can use an API endpoint or script to generate report data that can then be displayed in the page.

## Software Expectations / Goals

- Task Proxy uses the naming convention of `Project` to represent a collection of configurations, documentation, scripts, and solutions.
- Task Proxy can track multiple projects to be loaded and saved as desired.
- Only 1 project can be loaded at a time.
- Users will have the option of storing projects locally when using the standard (free) version of Task Proxy.
  - The common expected usecase is to setup the root of a repository as a Task Proxy project. This way all associated project data is always syned with its respective repository and anyone who clones the repository will have access to the associated Task Proxy project.
- Users will have the option of storing projects in the Cloud with a paid subscription. Cloud projects will store both pages and variables in the cloud.
- Projects cannot have their storage location changed between being stored locally or in the Cloud.
- Projects, pages, and components can be exported and imported into other projects.
- Encryption keys are never passed to or stored in the Cloud. Projects are never decrypted in the Cloud.
- Task Proxy will include logging to log anonymous usage patterns and bugs. These will be disabled by default, only enabling when the user opts-in for them, and will never send Project details, user information, or any other information that could be deemed sensitive information. The sole purpose of logging is to help gauge what features need priority based on usage, and track bugs so the software can be fixed and improved.

## Changes from Legacy

The original Task Proxy application was written using C#/.NET Blazor Maui. The current version is being rebuilt from the ground up to be built in Rust. Aside from the language changes there are a number of other key differences planned for how the application will function.

Feature | Legacy - C# | Current - Rust | Reason for Change
--- | --- | --- | ---
Local Storage Folder | ./TaskProxyData | ./.taskproxy | More appropriate to match commonly used industry standard naming convention for folders that store app specific data associated with a project/solution.
Local Storage Files | Encrypted data | SurrealDB data | Task Proxy will now include an internal SurrealDB database for storing all project pages/data and user variables. This will enable easy implementation of powerfull new features along with considerable performance improvements.

## Installation

Task Proxy is currently in very early development and is not ready for installation and usage by users outside of the development team.

When Task Proxy is available for early access release it will be made available as a downloadable application for Windows, iOS, and Linux through [TaskProxy.com](https://www.taskproxy.com).

## Dev

### Notes

> All terminal commands examples are written as if starting from the root folder of this solution.

### Solution Setup & Configure

Visit the [Bevy Book - Getting Started](https://bevyengine.org/learn/book/getting-started/setup/) for instructions on how to setup your local machine for developing Bevy applications, including configurations for reducing compile times during development.

### Build Project

```terminal
cargo build
```

### Run Project

```terminal
cargo run
```

### Run Poject and Watch for Changes

First you will need to make sure you have `cargo-watch` installed.

```terminal
cargo install cargo-watch
```

Then you can run the project using the watcher so any code changes will update automatically.

```terminal
cargo watch -c -i *.md -i *.json -x run
```

### VSCode Setup

#### Slint Extension

Install the [Slint](https://slint.dev) to get access to its features that make developing with Slint easier.

**Features**:

- Syntax highlighting
- Diagnostics from .slint files
- Live Preview of a .slint file
- Completion of properties
- Jump to definition (currently, only definition of Component)

##### Slint Preview

To open the Slint Preview window

Commit message:

Setup project using the Tauri framework

Docs/README.md, after:

# Task Proxy

<img
 src="https://www.taskproxy.com/ms-icon-310x310.png"
 alt="Stoic Dreams Task Proxy Logo"
 title="Stoic Dreams Task Proxy Logo"
 style="float:right;margin-top:-60px"
 />

[![Task Proxy GitHub Actions][gh-image]][gh-checks]

[gh-image]: https://github.com/stoicdreams/taskproxyapp/actions/workflows/deploy.yml/badge.svg
[gh-checks]: https://github.com/stoicdreams/taskproxyapp/actions?query=branch%3Amain

This project is a desktop application targeted towards software developers and power users to help them document and organize their workflows, automation scripts, and project configurations.

A key feature of Task Proxy is the ability to allow teams and developers to create and share reports, scripts, automation, and onboarding workflows to help new team members get setup quickly, and help assure developers stays in sync as project configurations are changed.

<div style="clear:both" />

## Expected launch features include

- Reporting components generated from script results or API endpoint results.
- Scoped variables for storing common, dev-specific, or secret data values.
- Script templating allowing variables editable in UI
- Easily update local environment variables as well as Azure App Config services that your local projects connect to.
- Event driven triggers to run specified scripts on specified events (file updates, button in UI, git commit, etc).
- Support for Windows 10/11, Mac, Linux

## Expected Use-Cases

- Onboarding workflow with step-by-step guidance for developers to setup their local environment for deploying projects locally (websites, fabric cluster, etc).
- Managing / Sharing scripts (Powershell, command prompt, SQL).
- Sharing team & project documentation (Architecture, features, coding standards, etc) organized using a tag-based system inspired by mind-map applications.
- Health report that will verify required SDKs/configurations are installed/setup as expected for Team/project.

## Planned Cloud Services

- Option to store variable data in cloud.

## Planned Website Services

- Paste exported project, page, and unit templates to share.
- View templates shared by others.
- Vote on templates <i class="fa-duotone fa-thumbs-up"></i>.

## Expected Workflows

### Opening Task Proxy for the first time

When opening the application for the first time, the user should be presented with a startup guide giving them a quick overview of the application and the ability to create their first project. Any Project specific menu items should be disabled / hidden.

### Cloud Services

Planned workflow to enable Cloud Services:

1. Create an account at StoicDreams.com and sign-up for desired subscription service option.
1. Sign-in to Task Proxy app with your Stoic Dreams account credentials.
1. App will automatically detect service availability and enable Cloud settings in App settings.
1. In Cloud Settings, user can toggle cloud features to enable or disable.

### Manage Variables

Variables are data objects that can be used to fill in values. It is recommended to use variables for any dynamic values used for any scripts or processes. But you absolutely need to use variables where any secrets might be used to assure secrets are not getting saved in any shared files or scripts.

#### Variable Scopes

Variables can be scoped as Page, Project, and Global scopes. Page scoped variables are only available to the page they are defined in. And project scoped variables are available anywhere within the project. While Global scopes can be accessed across any project.

When scripts or components are accessing variable values with keys duplicated across scopes, they will only use the value that is from the highest priority available. Page scoped variables have the highest priority, then Project, then Global.

### Create a new Report

Reports are components that can use an API endpoint or script to generate report data that can then be displayed in the page.

## Software Expectations / Goals

- Task Proxy uses the naming convention of `Project` to represent a collection of configurations, documentation, scripts, and solutions.
- Task Proxy can track multiple projects to be loaded and saved as desired.
- Only 1 project can be loaded at a time.
- Users will have the option of storing projects locally when using the standard (free) version of Task Proxy.
  - The common expected usecase is to setup the root of a repository as a Task Proxy project. This way all associated project data is always syned with its respective repository and anyone who clones the repository will have access to the associated Task Proxy project.
- Users will have the option of storing projects in the Cloud with a paid subscription. Cloud projects will store both pages and variables in the cloud.
- Projects cannot have their storage location changed between being stored locally or in the Cloud.
- Projects, pages, and components can be exported and imported into other projects.
- Encryption keys are never passed to or stored in the Cloud. Projects are never decrypted in the Cloud.
- Task Proxy will include logging to log anonymous usage patterns and bugs. These will be disabled by default, only enabling when the user opts-in for them, and will never send Project details, user information, or any other information that could be deemed sensitive information. The sole purpose of logging is to help gauge what features need priority based on usage, and track bugs so the software can be fixed and improved.

## Changes from Legacy

The original Task Proxy application was written using C#/.NET Blazor Maui. The current version is being rebuilt from the ground up to be built in Rust. Aside from the language changes there are a number of other key differences planned for how the application will function.

Feature | Legacy - C# | Current - Rust | Reason for Change
--- | --- | --- | ---
Local Storage Folder | ./TaskProxyData | ./.taskproxy | More appropriate to match commonly used industry standard naming convention for folders that store app specific data associated with a project/solution.
Local Storage Files | Encrypted data | SurrealDB data | Task Proxy will now include an internal SurrealDB database for storing all project pages/data and user variables. This will enable easy implementation of powerfull new features along with considerable performance improvements.

## Installation

Task Proxy is currently in very early development and is not ready for installation and usage by users outside of the development team.

When Task Proxy is available for early access release it will be made available as a downloadable application for Windows, iOS, and Linux through [TaskProxy.com](https://www.taskproxy.com).

## Dev

### Notes

> All terminal commands examples are written as if starting from the root folder of this solution.

### Solution Setup & Configure

Visit the [Tauri Website](https://tauri.app/v1/guides/getting-started/setup/) for instructions on how to setup your local machine for developing Tauri applications.

### Build Project

```terminal
cargo tarui build
```

### Run Project

```terminal
cargo tauri dev
```

### Run Poject and Watch for Changes

First you will need to make sure you have `cargo-watch` installed.

```terminal
cargo install cargo-watch
```

Then you can run the project using the watcher so any code changes will update automatically.

```terminal
cargo watch -c -i *.md -i *.json -x run
```

### VSCode Setup

#### Slint Extension

Install the [Slint](https://slint.dev) to get access to its features that make developing with Slint easier.

**Features**:

- Syntax highlighting
- Diagnostics from .slint files
- Live Preview of a .slint file
- Completion of properties
- Jump to definition (currently, only definition of Component)

##### Slint Preview

To open the Slint Preview window
